In this video as promised it's going to be up to you to wire up the remove functionality for our notes
application.
We're gonna do this in three separate challenges as opposed to one big one so we can make sure we're
all headed in the right direction.
Along the way right here I have the challenge comments for the first of three challenges for this video.
The goal here is to setup the command option and a function for removing notes.
So step one set setup the remove command to take your required title option and that should be passed
in as a string.
So when you want to remove a note you have to remove it by specifying the title of the note to delete.
So if I wanted to delete this first note I would call the remove command setting the title option equal
to the letter T.
Now step 2 you're going to create an export a remove.
Note function from notes dot J s much like we have ADD.
Note over here which takes title and body you're going to create remove.
Note which just takes in the title.
Step 3 you are going to call remove.
Note in the remove command handler.
Much like we call add note in the add command handler right here.
Step 4 when you actually call remove.
Note it's not going to do anything important just yet.
That's one of the other challenges for now.
You can go ahead and just use console dot log in that function to log out the title making sure it's
getting passed through correctly.
Last up you're going to test your work.
You should be able to run this command.
Here I am using the remove command and passing in a title and I should see this string print from a
console log in the remove.
Note function in notes dot J S so take some time to knock that out.
Get everything up and running and actually test your work when you're done come back and click play
how'd you do.
Let's go ahead and walk through the process together.
So step one we want to set up that title option for the remove command.
Now the removed command is something that already exists.
We created it several videos ago.
We just need to customize it a little bit and remember to add an option or multiple options.
We specify that builder property which is itself an object on here we can list out the options we want
to support.
In this case we just need a title so I'll set that up as an object value as well.
Which is exactly what we did for the ad command previously.
Next up we're going to configure title.
I'll set up a describe property right here we could use something like.
Note title then we can set up demand to make this a required option.
So demand option is going to equal true and then the last property which we've set up previously and
we're going to setup here is type and we'll be setting type equal to the string string.
Now we have the title in place and that wraps up Step 1 we have the command ready to go.
Step 2 We need to create an export a remove note function from notes dot J S so over here alongside
of ADD note I'll add it down below the order is not important.
We'll create a remove note function.
So right here I'll set that variable up I'll create the function and as I mentioned this one just needs
the title of the note to delete.
Now once we have the function defined we have to make sure we export it.
So down below on this object this needs to get export it.
We didn't export low notes and save notes because those weren't required by any other files down below
we are going to add remove note to the object we export and the value for that property will come from
the remove.
Note function variable.
Perfect.
Now we have it export exported and over inside of app dot J S we can go ahead and actually call it in
the remove command handler.
So down here in the command handler we're gonna go ahead and actually execute it.
Now I'm gonna go ahead and call notes dot remove.
Note we are going to pass to it just the title.
Remember I wanted you to pass the title through and then log it from this function.
So right here we can access that by first naming the ARG the argument like we've done previously.
This is where we get access to all of the arguments in our handler.
Then we're going to pass in ARG V that title which matches up with the option name we chose.
So at this point we are passing things through to remove note and that wraps up the next step so call
remove.
Note indeed remove command handler.
Next up have removed.
Note log the title of the note to be removed.
So for the moment we're going to add a little place holder dummy function console log.
Just printing the title will actually wire that up in the next challenge and the final step was to test
our works from the terminal.
We're gonna make sure this command works.
Let's make sure first we save the file and then we'll execute it.
So node apt J S with remove like we have right here and I'll specify the title option listing out in
quotes after the equal sign in the title of the note to remove and I'll just use some title as I specified
up above.
If I run the program what do I get.
I get some entitled printing which is exactly what I was hoping for.
We now have the option coming into the program.
We've removed command knows what to do with it passing it off to remove note and now remove.
Note has the data it needs to actually remove the note and that's gonna be the second challenge for
this video right here the goal is to wire up the remove note function that function which currently
just logs the title to the console.
The first thing you have to do is make sure to load in the existing notes.
We need an array of notes so we can actually try to remove something from it.
Once we have that array of notes in the removed node function you're going to use the filter method
on it like we did an add note.
This time you're going to use the filter method to filter out the matching note if any you're going
to keep all of the notes that didn't match so you're going to keep all of the notes whose title didn't
match the title that was passed in.
So this will leave you with an array of notes that should be capped and all you're going to do is use
our existing save a functionality to save that array to our Jason File.
Once you're done you want to test your work.
Try it with a title that exists.
You should see that note removed from our Jason File and the other ones should stay.
Then try it with a title that doesn't exist and you should see no change to the Jason File.
Take as much time as you need to wire this one up.
Feel free to test your work use anything we've covered so far and use the internet.
Use your Q and A in the course or whatever you need to get this challenge done.
All right.
Take a moment to pose the video when you're done come back and click play
Let's get to it.
Step one we have to load in those existing notes.
So over in notes dot J s much like we did up above for ADD note we have to use load notes.
So right here a new concept called Notes or called whatever you chose.
And we will use the load notes function which takes no arguments since it's just reading data from our
file.
Next up we have to carry an array of the notes to keep.
And we're going to use filter to get that done.
So right here I can create a constant and I can call this whatever I'd like.
I can say something like notes to keep and this will get its value from whatever comes back from notes
Doc filter which is the method I wanted you to use.
We used this previously to find duplicates.
We're gonna use this now to find all of the notes we want to keep.
I'm going to pass to it a function and we already know this function gets called one time for each note
in the notes array and we get access to the individual object right here.
I return true if I want to keep it in this new Array.
I return False if I don't.
So I want to return true when it's not a match.
So right here that's gonna be when note that title is not equal to the title property.
Those are the ones I want to keep.
If the two match up I want to remove it and that will end up returning false which is correct.
So right here what do we do.
Well we have our new array and we have to save it.
So I'm going to call save notes the function we already created and I am going to pass to it notes to
keep.
Which is our brand new array now that we have this in place we are all done and we can test out our
work.
I'm gonna make sure to save all of my files and we're going to use the remove command with a note that
exists and one that does not.
So down below.
Let's go ahead and first try to remove a note that exists.
I'm gonna remove this first one with a title t node app dot J.S. remove.
We will add on that title option inside of quotes.
After that equals sign the letter T I run the command and a couple of seconds later V.S. C should see
the file changed and things will reload.
If it does it you can always use this refresh button which tends to get the job done.
Right here though I can see we now have just two notes.
That first note was correctly removed.
Now let's go ahead and try something else.
I'm gonna run these same command again this time it should not find a match which means that nothing
should change right here.
We're just hoping that our two notes still stay in place.
It looks like they are indeed still in place and that means everything is wired up correctly and we
are able to successfully remove notes from our Jason File.
Now that we have this in place we are all done with this second challenge and we're going to move on
to the third one which is much simpler and a bit more fun.
This is all about getting the user useful information when they run the command using the console log
and Chuck right here the goal use chalk to provide useful logs for remove.
So if a note is indeed removed I'd like you to print.
Note removed with a green background if no note is removed I'd like you to print no note found with
a red background.
So the goal here is to let the user know exactly how things went down below.
One of these commands worked and the other failed.
But you wouldn't really know that based off of the output which is nothing.
So take some time to knock that one out.
I'm not going to give you any more hints than that.
Actually I'll give you one hint.
You only have to change the code in the remove note function.
All right knocked that out when you're done come back and click play.
All right.
That is the last challenge for this video.
Let's go ahead and knock it out over in notes.
Jay s we can figure out if a note was removed or not.
By comparing the length of our two arrays if they're the same then no note was removed.
If they're different then we know something was indeed removed.
So right here we can go ahead and create an if statement for that.
If we are going to check if notes dot length is greater then notes to keep dot length.
If it is indeed greater then we know.
A note was removed.
What are we going to do.
We're gonna print our green message.
So the first thing we have to do is load chalk into this file as it is not in ported const choc equals
require we are requiring the chalk NPM library.
There's no need to reinstall it as it's already installed in the project and once we have it loaded
in we can configure it down below.
Right here I'm going to use console dialog to print my message.
I'll be using chalk to set up my color scheme.
I want to use green and I'm going to inverse things to have the green background.
Then I'm going to pass to it my message and I said I would print what did I say.
Note removed over here.
Note removed.
Perfect.
Now we can actually move these save notes call up here as well.
There's no need to save the notes unless the length is different.
Next up we can set up our else clause.
This is only going to run if the notes dot length array is not greater than notes dot keep which means
nothing was removed right here.
We're going to print a single message using console dot log that's gonna be chalk dot red dot inverse
passing to it.
Our little message and I said no note found over here.
No note found perfect.
Now that we have this in place we can go ahead and test things out down below.
I'm gonna save all of my files.
I'm going to rerun the previous command.
Now we already deleted that note as I would expect our read message and that is exactly what we got.
No note found now rerun the previous command swapping out the title value so I'm gonna remove T from
inside of those quotes and I'll replace it with one of my two notes over here.
Let's go ahead and remove the note with the title list.
Space too so down below list space 2.
I run it and what do I get.
I get my green message showing up which is fantastic.
We are all done with the challenge.
We now have the remove Kamen getting its job done and it's doing it in a way that actually provides
useful information back to the user.
That is it for the challenges in this video.
I'm going to remove my challenge comments and over inside of notes J.
S We have a nice remove.
Note function wiring up the second of our four commands.
We don't have ways to add a note.
We have ways to remove a note.
The only two left are related to reading a note and reading all your notes listing out the titles and
we're going to knock those out in the coming lectures before we go.
Let's actually add this chalk functionality to add note as well.
So right here we have our new note added message.
I'm gonna cut that string out and I'll use chalk dot right here.
Green Dot inverse providing the same message we had before.
Then down below that I'll use a red background for note titled taken so chalk dot red dot inverse passing
in our string and there we go.
That's where we're gonna stop for this one.
I'll see you in the next video where we continue on with the program.